---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'
title: 'Introduction to debug reports'
subhead: Part 1 of 3 on debugging Attribution Reporting. Learn why debugging matters and when to use debug reports in testing.
description: Part 1 of 3 on debugging Attribution Reporting. Learn why debugging matters and when to use debug reports in testing.
date: 2022-12-13
updated: 2023-03-02
authors:
  - maudn
  - alexandrawhite
---

{% Partial 'privacy-sandbox/ara-debugging-series-intro.njk' %}

## Why you need debug reports

If you're testing the Attribution Reporting API,
you should check that your integration is working properly, understand gaps in measurement results between your
cookie-based implementation and your Attribution Reporting implementation, and troubleshoot any issues with your integration.

Debug reports are required to complete these tasks. Therefore, if you're participating
in the
[origin trial](/docs/privacy-sandbox/unified-origin-trial/),
we strongly recommend you set up debug reports.

## Glossary

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
The _reporting origin_ is the [origin](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#origin) that sets the Attribution Reporting [source header](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/register-attribution-source/) and [trigger header](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/register-attribution-trigger/). All reports generated by the browser are sent to this origin. In this guidance, we use `https://adtech.example` as the example reporting origin.
{% endAside %}

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
An _attribution report_ (_report_ for short) is the final report—event-level or aggregatable—that contains the measurement data you’ve requested.
{% endAside %}

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
A _debug report_ contains additional data about an attribution report, or about a source or trigger event. Receiving a debug report does not necessarily mean that something is working incorrectly! There are [two types of debug reports](#debug-report-types)
{% endAside %}

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
A _transitional debug report_ is a debug report that requires a cookie to be set in order to be generated and sent. Transitional debug reports will be unavailable if a cookie is not set, and once third-party cookies are deprecated. **All debug reports described in this guide are transitional debug reports.**
{% endAside %}

## Key aspects of debug reports

### Two types of debug reports {: #debug-report-types}

Two types of debug reports are available. Use both, as they fulfill different use cases.

#### Success debug reports

_Success debug reports_ track **successful generation of an attribution report**. They relate
directly to an attribution report.

Success debug reports have been available since Chrome 101 (April 2022).

#### Verbose debug reports

_Verbose debug reports_ give you more visibility into the source and trigger events—so you can either ensure that sources were registered successfully, or track missing reports and determine why they're missing (failure in source or trigger events, failure when sending or generating the report).
Verbose debug reports indicate:

- Cases where the browser successfully registered a source.
- Cases where the browser did **not** successfully register a source or trigger event — which means that it will not generate an attribution report.
- Cases where an attribution report **can't be generated or sent** for some reason.

Verbose debug reports include a `type` field that describes either a successful source registration, or the reason why a source, trigger or attribution report was not generated.

Verbose debug reports have been available since Chrome 109 (January 2023)—except for _source registration success verbose debug reports_ that have been added later in Chrome 112.

Review example reports in [Part 2: Set up debug reports](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-2#verbose-reports-examples).

### Debug reports are cookie-based

To use debug reports, the [reporting origin](#glossary) needs to [set a cookie](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-3/).

If the origin configured to receive reports is a third party, this cookie will be a third-party
cookie. This has a few key implications:

- Debug reports are only generated **if third-party cookies are
  allowed in the user's browser**.
- Debug reports will **no longer be available after third-party cookies are
  phased out**.

### Debug reports are sent immediately

Debug reports are sent immediately by the browser to the [reporting origin](#glossary). This
is unlike attribution reports, which are [sent with a
delay](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/system-overview/#data-collection).

Success debug reports are generated and sent as soon as the
corresponding attribution report is generated: that is, on trigger
registration.

Verbose debug reports are sent immediately upon source or trigger
registration.

### Debug reports have different endpoint paths

Like attribution reports, all debug reports are sent to the [reporting origin](#glossary). Debug reports are sent to three separate endpoints of the [reporting origin](#glossary):

- Endpoint for **success** debug reports, event-level
- Endpoint for **success** debug reports, aggregatable
- Endpoint for **verbose** debug reports, event-level and aggregatable.

Learn more in [Part 2: Set up debug reports](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-2/).

## Use cases

### Basic real-time integration check

Debug reports are sent to your endpoint immediately, unlike attribution reports
which are delayed to protect user privacy. **Use debug reports as a real-time signal that your integration with the
Attribution Reporting API is working.**

Learn how to do this in [Part 3: Debugging cookbook](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-3/).

### Loss analysis

Unlike third-party cookies, the Attribution Reporting
API includes built-in privacy
protections, that are designed to strike a balance between utility
and privacy. This means that with the Attribution Reporting API, you might not be
able to collect all of the measurement data that you currently collect with
cookies. Not all the conversions that you can
track with third-party cookies will generate an attribution report.

One example: for event-level reports, you can register at most one conversion
per impression. This means that for a given ad impression, you will only get one attribution report, no matter how many times the user converts.

Use debug reports to gain visibility into the differences between your
cookie-based measurement results and the results you get with the Attribution
Reporting API. Pinpoint which conversions are reported, how many conversions are
not reported, and specifically which ones and why.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
Running a _loss analysis_ means using debug reports to quantify differences between measurement results obtained with cookies and measurement results obtained with Attribution Reporting. A detailed loss analysis also identifies the causes for these differences.
{% endAside %}

Learn how to run a loss analysis in [Part 3: Debugging cookbook](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-3/).

### Troubleshooting

While loss caused by privacy or resource protections is expected, other loss
may be unintended. Misconfigurations in your implementation or bugs in the
browser itself can cause reports to go missing.

You can use debug reports to detect and fix an implementation issue on your side, or to
report a potential bug to browser teams. Learn how to do this in
[Part 3: Debugging cookbook](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-3/).

### Advanced configuration check

Some features of the Attribution Reporting API allow you to customize the API's
behaviors. Filtering rules, deduplication rules and priority rules are some examples.

When using these features, use debug reports to check that your logic leads to the intended behavior in
production, without waiting for attribution reports. Learn how to do this in [Part 3: Debugging cookbook](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-3/).

### Local testing with aggregatable reports

Unlike aggregatable attribution reports that are encrypted, aggregatable debug reports
include the unencrypted payload.

Use aggregatable debug reports to validate the contents of aggregatable reports,
and to generate summary reports with the local [aggregation tool](https://github.com/privacysandbox/aggregation-service#set-up-local-testing) for testing.

## Up next

[Part 2: Set up debug reports](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting-debugging/part-2/)
