- The _reporting origin_ is the [origin](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#origin)
  that [sets the Attribution Reporting [source](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/register-attribution-source/) and [trigger](/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/register-attribution-trigger/) headers.
  All reports generated by the browser are sent to this origin. In this guidance,
  we use `https://adtech.example` as the example reporting origin.
- An _attribution report_ (_report_ for short) is the final report (event-level or
  aggregatable) that contains the measurement data you've requested.
- A _debug report_ contains additional data about an attribution report, or about
  a source or trigger event. Receiving a debug report does not necessarily mean that
  something is working incorrectly! There are [two types of debug reports](#debug-report-types)
- A _transitional debug report_ is a debug report that requires a cookie to be
  set in order to be generated and sent. Transitional debug reports will be
  unavailable if a cookie is not set, and once third-party cookies are deprecated.
  **All debug reports described in this guide are transitional debug reports.**
- _Success debug reports_ track **successful generation of an attribution report**.
  They relate directly to an attribution report. Success debug reports have been
  available since Chrome 101 (April 2022).
- _Verbose debug reports_ can track **missing reports** and help you determine why
  they're missing. They indicate cases where the browser did not record a source
  or trigger event, (which means it will not generate an attribution report), and
  cases where an attribution report can't be generated or sent for some reason.
  Verbose debug reports include a `type` field that describes the reason why a source
  event, trigger event or attribution report was not generated. Verbose debug
  reports are available starting in Chrome 109
  ([Stable in January 2023](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule)).
- _Debug keys_ are unique identifiers you can set on both the source side and the
  trigger side. Debug keys enable you to map cookie-based conversions and
  attribution-based conversions. When you've set up your system to generate
  debug reports and set debug keys, **the browser will include these debug keys
  in all attribution reports and debug reports.**

For more concepts and key terms used throughout our documentation, refer to
the [Privacy Sandbox glossary](/docs/privacy-sandbox/glossary/).
