---
layout: layouts/doc-post.njk
title: Proposal lifecycle in the Privacy Sandbox
subhead: >
  How we collaborate with stakeholders to discuss, test, and adopt privacy-preserving technologies.
description: >
  How we collaborate with stakeholders to discuss, test, and adopt privacy-preserving technologies.
date: 2022-03-30
updated: 2022-05-17
authors:
  - alexandrawhite
---

_Much of this content was originally shared as a part of the [2021 Chrome
Developer Summit recap](/docs/privacy-sandbox/cds21-update/)._

## What is the goal of The Privacy Sandbox proposals?

The Privacy Sandbox proposals are the first of many steps necessary in the
creation of web standards.

Web standards are technical documents&mdash;known as specifications or
specs&mdash;which detail exactly how web technology should work. These specs are
for developers to implement the technologies. For example, the [Accessible Rich
Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) standard](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/)
(commonly known as just "ARIA") defines technical ways to make the web more
accessible to those with disabilities. These specs are developed for and by the
[World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/), an
international community with full-time staff, member organizations, and feedback
from the general public.

After [discussion](#discussion), [testing](#testing), and [scaled
adoption](#scaled-adoption), some proposals will become specs. It's critical we
[receive feedback](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/) from developers and industry
leaders (with and without web technology knowledge) to ensure we create durable
web features with broad utility and robust privacy protections for users.

Chromium (the open source platform behind many modern browsers) has written
about the [feature development
process](https://www.chromium.org/blink/launching-features/) for all
technologies which aim to become a web standard. Because of the critical nature
of privacy and security on the web, we expect and encourage large amounts of
discussion and feedback before testing begins.

## From proposal to web standard

There is a large amount of ecosystem input shaping this work, at every stage of
development. This process may be familiar to web developers, but may be new to
other industry stakeholders who will use these purpose-built APIs&mdash;and
whose expertise is critical to this initiative.

### Start with discussion {: #discussion}

There have been dozens of [privacy-preserving
proposals](https://github.com/w3c/web-advertising#ideas-and-proposals-links-outside-this-repo)
offered by Chrome and others over the last couple of years. You can read these
proposals, ask questions, offer ideas to improve them and see what others are
saying. 

To find conversations where the proposed solutions are being discussed and
debated together, there are a number of W3C groups you can join or monitor,
depending on the use cases you're interested in:

* [Improving Web Advertising Business
  Group](https://www.w3.org/community/web-adv/)
* [Private Advertising Technology Community
  Group](https://www.w3.org/community/patcg/)
* [Privacy Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/privacycg/)
* [Web Platform Incubator Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/)
* [Federated Identity Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/fed-id/)

The discussion stage can be highly involved.

For example, [FLEDGE](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/blob/main/FLEDGE.md) is
a proposal to support interest-based advertising without cross-site tracking.
With input from privacy advocates and many industry stakeholders, FLEDGE has
evolved from two previous proposals (PIGIN and TURTLEDOVE). More than one
hundred organizations have joined [W3C
meetings](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues/88) to help refine the
current version, plus over [200 online discussion
threads](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues).

{% Img src="image/VbsHyyQopiec0718rMq2kTE1hke2/Rg4lEQVzb1v6CZTyzFTE.png",
alt="In 2019 we proposed PIGIN, followed by TURTLEDOVE in 2020 and FLEDGE in
2021.", width="800", height="169" %}

There have also been more than half a dozen other proposals offered by other
companies, in the same solution space. Through continued collaboration, we hope
to define a path forward. 

At the same time, [developer testing](/blog/fledge-api/) for the initial version
of FLEDGE is behind a Chrome flag so developers can get their hands on it.

Not every proposal will go through such an intense incubation period as
FLEDGE&mdash;some will move much more quickly&mdash;but there is a lot of
innovation happening. These are new ideas and it can take a lot of work to get
them right.

### Developers test and share feedback {: #testing}


Testing is critical because it provides an early opportunity to [provide
feedback](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/) on improvements or issues that
require more work. A growing number of Privacy Sandbox proposals are available
for testing now with a variety of options available to you.

Testing in Chrome usually starts with a feature behind a flag for developers to
test locally, without that feature being live. This means developers need to
turn it on in the browser to try it out. This code is often very fresh, so you
can expect to find issues.

We also run origin trials, each of which run for a limited time with a limited
population of Chrome users. Origin trials are public and open to all
developersâ€”you just need to register to opt in your site or service. This is
your opportunity to try the feature on production traffic and provide feedback
on real-world experience.

<figure>
{% Img src="image/VWw0b3pM7jdugTkwI6Y81n6f5Yc2/gSDnOdAhjtUa5XnBFVI7.png",
alt="Discussion starts with a proposal and an Intent to Prototype, Functional /
technical / developer testing often includes a feature flag, Effectiveness /
utility / scaled testing often includes an origin trial which is signalled with
an Intent to Experiment. Finally an Intent to Ship signals to the transition to
adoption / general availability", width="800", height="231" %}
<figcaption>
Features progress through a timeline of development and testing through to
general availability. These individual phases are not hard boundaries, but
represent a change in focus as a feature moves from discussing a potential
functionality through to testing real behavior in a browser. The diagram shows
some terms and artefacts you will see through a proposal's progress.
</figcaption>
</figure>


When a feature is initially made available for testing, the focus is generally
on **functional or technical testing**. With new code, there is an expectation
that contributors will discover and report bugs, as well as provide fixes for
those bugs. This means the stability and shape of a feature may change quickly
in this period. Receiving feedback on the integration and developer experience
is critical to ensure that debugging and tooling support can be created
alongside the feature.

As development progresses and the features become more stable, the focus shifts
to wider scale **effectiveness or utility testing.** The aim of utility testing
is to understand the performance of the feature against its intended use cases,
at scale. At this stage, the population of Chrome users included in the
experiment is increased in order to obtain a larger, more representative sample.
During this phase, we hope to see sites running longer term tests over a larger
portion of their own traffic to validate the feature against their business
needs.

Success throughout this process depends both on developers doing hands-on
testing and being willing to share what they learn. We will also be carrying out
our own testing through these phases and sharing the results with you through
the various individual project channels with regular summaries across the
project in our [Progress in the Privacy Sandbox blog
series](/tags/progress-in-the-privacy-sandbox/) and [quarterly feedback
reports](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/#reports) as part of [our commitments
agreed with the
CMA](https://blog.google/around-the-globe/google-europe/path-forward-privacy-sandbox/).


{% Aside %}

For example, Yahoo! JAPAN published a [detailed
analysis](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/201) of
their participation in the Attribution Reporting API origin trial. They
highlighted areas for improvement like the need for a better way to deliver
conversion reports, which has now been added to the API.

{% endAside %}


Whether you share your testing in public places like the W3C, feedback forms, or
through direct partnership channels, [we hope to hear from
you](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/).

Testing in the browser, either through feature flags or origin trials, isn't the
only way to explore how new technologies might work. Some companies are also
building simulations based on Privacy Sandbox concepts.


{% Aside %}

Advertising platform Criteo recently [ran a
competition](https://medium.com/criteo-engineering/assessing-the-impacts-of-the-privacy-sandbox-piece-by-piece-1-bring-the-noise-624331e64a12)
with more than 150 teams testing different machine learning models to evaluate
how differential privacy concepts such as noise insertion and aggregation might
impact advertising performance.

{% endAside %}

### Launch for scaled adoption {: #scaled-adoption}

Once an API is tested and ready for general use in Chrome, we announce the
launch and make sure public documentation is ready for scaled ecosystem
adoption.

[User-Agent Client Hints](https://web.dev/user-agent-client-hints/) (UA-CH)
launched in Chrome in 2021. It's part of the Privacy Sandbox work stream to
reduce covert tracking such as browser fingerprinting.

Like cookies, the User-Agent (UA) string is an early web feature. By default, it
provides a lot of information about the user's browser and device, making it a
readily available surface for fingerprinting. It also has a format that can be a
headache to parse.

{% Img src="image/VbsHyyQopiec0718rMq2kTE1hke2/AVzbV9HF0T0bm3buFjV6.jpg",
   alt="For example, 'User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 10; Pixel 3)
   AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/84.0.4076.0 Mobile
   Safari/537.36' is very long and offers specific details used for
   fingerprinting, such as the exact device model, platform version, and full
   Chrome version.", width="800", height="464"
%}

The reduced User-Agent includes the browser's brand and a significant version,
where the request came from (desktop or mobile), and the platform. In the
future, youâ€™ll need to use UA-CH if you need to access more data in the future,
such as specific information about the user's device or conditions.

In other words, the User-Agent data is moving from an "available by default"
model to an "on request" model. This is a good privacy practice today, and the
pattern we want to set for the future.

{% Img src="image/VbsHyyQopiec0718rMq2kTE1hke2/ZsumGF9jzVb5yYL4QD3i.png",
alt="", width="800", height="338" %}

In April 2022, gradual UA string reduction will begin in Chrome. UA-CH launched
and was ready for scaled adoption starting in March of 2021&mdash;you can begin
testing and migrating to it now. [Participate in an origin
trial](/origintrials/#/view_trial/-7123568710593282047) to opt-in to the reduced
UA string so you can see what the future state looks like.

It's important that developers have ample time to transition their websites to
adopt new standards. If it turns out your site needs extra time, you'll be able
to opt-in to keep using the User-Agent string as-is through March 2023.

## Wrap up and feedback  {: #wrap-up-feedback}

We'll continue to explain what's happening, provide as much forward visibility
as we can, encourage your involvement, and hear your input.

*  Learn about the many ways in which you can [provide
   feedback](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/).
*  Read the technical details and [implementation
   guidelines](/docs/privacy-sandbox/).
*  Share your feedback with [@ChromiumDev on
   Twitter](https://twitter.com/ChromiumDev).
*  Submit Issues to the [developer support
   repo](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/privacy-sandbox-dev-support).
