---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'
title: 'The Topics API'
subhead: >
  Enable interest-based advertising, without resorting to tracking the sites a user visits.
description: >
  A proposal to enable interest-based advertising without resorting to tracking the sites a user visits.
date: 2022-01-25
updated: 2022-10-28
authors:
  - samdutton
---

This is a landing page for the latest information about the Topics API for the web.

- For technical resources, see the developer guides for [web platforms](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/) and ([Android](https://developer.android.com/design-for-safety/privacy-sandbox/guides/topics)).

- For a non-technical introduction, see the [Topics overview on PrivacySandbox.com](https://privacysandbox.com/intl/en_us/proposals/topics/).

## Latest updates {: #updates}

### October 26th, 2022: <br>Responding to industry feedback on Topics

In recent weeks the Topics API has seen an increased level of testing by a variety of ecosystem
participants, providing Privacy Sandbox with valuable feedback. We have welcomed the insights shared
by both [Xandr](https://medium.com/xandr-tech/on-the-topic-of-topics-298f95e39269) and Criteo, both
of whom have noted a solid alignment between their respective domain classifier and Chrome's.
Constructive criticism on the classifier methodology and the scope of the current taxonomy are all
considerations for future iteration of the API. We look forward to more industry exploration
leveraging the Topics signal as a new input to the modeling that drives advertising on the modern
open web.

_Posted by: Leeron Israel. Privacy Sandbox Product Manager for Topics API_

### 2022 Q2 feedback report on Topics

As part of its commitments to the CMA, Google has agreed to publicly provide quarterly reports on
the stakeholder engagement process for its Privacy Sandbox proposals (see paragraphs 12 and
17(c)(ii) of the Commitments). These Privacy Sandbox feedback summary reports are generated by
aggregating feedback received by Chrome from the various sources as listed in the feedback overview,
including but not limited to: GitHub Issues, the feedback form made available on privacysandbox.com,
meetings with industry stakeholders, and web standards forums.
[Here is the section on Topics feedback in the Q2 report.](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/report-2022-q2/#topics)

_Posted by: Joey Trotz, Director. Privacy Sandbox Ecosystems_

## Feedback requests  {: #feedback}

The Privacy Sandbox team welcomes all feedback regarding the design, implementation and
effectiveness of the Topics API. You can join the discussion and raise questions in the [Issues tab
of the Topics proposal](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues) on GitHub. You
can also provide feedback via the
[Privacy Sandbox feedback form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSePSeywmcwuxLFsttajiv7NOhND1WoYtKgNJYxw_AGR8LR1Dg/viewform).

Below are some specific areas where the Chrome team is seeking input from testers and other
stakeholders.

### Topics taxonomy

-  What taxonomy of Topics should be used and who should maintain it?
    - [github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/2](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/2)

-  How should the browser detect abusive usage of Topics
    - [github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/5](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/5)

-  Should sites receive historic Topics every visit, or just the first visit only?
    - [github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/6](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/6)

### Website classification

-  Are there areas for improvement in the website classification model?
    - [github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/2](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/2)

-  Should sites be able to set or appeal their own Topics?
    - [github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/1](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/1)
    -  https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/2

### Topics ranking

-  Question + GitHub link to answer
-  Question + GitHub link to answer

### Topics filtering

-  Question + GitHub link to answer
-  Question + GitHub link to answer

## Features and capabilities  {: #features-capabilities}

Here is a summary of key capabilities the Chrome team expects the Topics API to support once third
party cookies are phased out. As is the case today, many advertising use cases will be addressed
through a combination of Privacy Sandbox technologies and other technologies. To begin testing
Topics, see the developer guides for [web platforms](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/) and
([Android](https://developer.android.com/design-for-safety/privacy-sandbox/guides/topics)).
To share your input, [join the discussion on GitHub](https://github.com/WICG/turtledove/issues) or
use the [Privacy Sandbox feedback form](https://goo.gle/privacy-sandbox-feedback).

### Available to test today

**Updated October 25th, 2022**

-  **Feature:** Observe and retrieve user's topics of interest. Callers are able to set and later
        retrieve a user's coarse-grained interest topics, in a privacy-friendly manner.
        -  The API provides topics that a user might currently be interested in, based
            on their recent browsing activity. The same API is used to both
            [observe a topic for a user](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#api-callers-only-receive-topics-theyve-observed)
            and
            [access the topics](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#access-topics).

-  **Feature:** Interest-based advertising and content recommendations
    -  The returned topics, selected from a
    [taxonomy](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/blob/main/taxonomy_v1.md) of around
    350 topics, can supplement other durable signals for interest-based advertising.

-  **Feature:** Topics Debugging
    -  Publishers can use the `chrome://topics-internals` page to locally debug the API,
        access and run the classifier model file to see the topics assigned to different sites.
        (See: [Debug Topics](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#debug) &
        [Colab](https://colab.sandbox.google.com/drive/1hIVoz8bRCTpllYvads51MV7YS3zi3prn?usp=sharing))

### In development

-  **Feature:** Classifier Iterations
    -  Improve the classifier model which produces topics from user's browsing activity.
        (See:
        [Classifier](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#how-does-the-api-infer-topics-for-a-site))
        [Timing: Ongoing]

-  **Feature:** Taxonomy Iterations
    -  Evolve the current taxonomy of around 350 topics with input from the ecosystem. Chrome is
        very interested in feedback on a long-term maintenance and governance model. (See:
        [Taxonomy](/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#how-would-topics-be-curated-and-selected),
        [Feedback Report](/docs/privacy-sandbox/feedback/report-2022-q1/#show-relevant-content-and-ads))
        [Timing: Ongoing]

-  **Feature:** Additional flexibility in accessing topics
    -  Support for Topics in HTTP headers. Split Topics API functionality
    -  (See: [Update](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/pull/81/files),
        [Update](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/pull/80/files)) [Timing: By EOY 2022]

### Supported by other Privacy Sandbox technologies

-  **Feature:** Remarketing
    ([More about this use case](https://github.com/w3c/web-advertising/blob/main/support_for_advertising_use_cases.md#retargeting))

### Not currently supported by the Topics API

-  **Feature:** Website ability to choose or edit their Topic assignments
    -  Currently, websites cannot customize the topics assigned to their sites given the
        potential risk to user privacy. Chrome is exploring potential options though and is seeking
        industry feedback. (See: Feedback Report)

