---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'
title: Add an app or extension API
description: 'Add an API to the reference area.'
date: 2020-12-17
updated: 2022-06-08
---

This page describes how to expose an API on developer.chrome.com. This includes both the [API index][api-index] page and the individual API's reference page.

## Prerequisites

Ensure that the API is exposed in the [head revision][chromium] of the Chromium repo.

## Add an API {: #add-an-api }

To add a reference page for a Chrome App or Extension API, create a folder and `index.md` file
inside `site/en/docs/extensions/reference/`. The folder name doesn't directly relate to the API
itself—control which API is rendered via frontmatter like this:

```md
---
api: browserAction
---

Something about this API. This text is completely optional. If you don't want to write anything,
then you should include a comment like <!-- This is intentionally empty -->.
```

The API name is assumed to be under "chrome.apiName". If you are documenting an API like
"chrome.input.ime", then by convention, the folder name should be "input_ime" but the API in your
frontmatter should still be `api: input.ime`.

Once this file is created and the API is exposed in chrome-types, the API will be automatically
included on the [API reference page][api-index]. If it's a Chrome Apps-only API, it will appear at
the very bottom of that page, rather than in Stable, Beta, or Dev sections.

## API Source

The API reference is generated via the published APIs in the [chrome-types][types-npm] package on
npm. It may be possible for that dependency to get out-of-date; if you're trying to document a new
API, take these steps:

- Run `npm install chrome-types` to ensure that latest version is available.
- Run `npm run types` to build our fast internal representation of the TypeScript definition files
  (this normally happens on checkout, but since you've updated the types, it needs a re-run)

If you're just curious about what APIs are published (and not all are documented, matching the
previous incarnation of this site) then take a look inside `node_modules/chrome-types/index.d.ts`
(or its peer file `platform_app.d.ts` for Chrome Apps-only APIs).

### Updating APIs

Our TypeScript definition files are generated by running "npm deploy" from within [the npm
subfolder][types-npm-dir] of that repo, which will check out the right parts of Chromium and
automatically build the TypeScript definition files.

As of December 2020, this still needs to be done manually, and just deploys types from [Chromium's HEAD revision][chromium]. See its [issue tracker][types-issus] for updates.

## Troubleshooting

### Missing API index entry || missing generated API docs {: #missing-types }

If the build process generates a page for an API but the API is not listed in the [API
index][api-index], [chrome-types][types-npm] may not have picked up information about the API. Look for a log message like the one below.

```text
Reference page with 'api: exampleApi' does not have source data, check types flow: ./site/en/docs/extensions/reference/exampleApi/index.md
```

Verify that the API definition has been merged into [Chromium's HEAD revision][chromium]. If it's
not exposed there, [chrome-types][types-npm] won't be able to expose it.

[api-index]: /docs/extensions/reference/
[types-npm]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/chrome-types
[types-gh]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-types
[types-issues]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-types/issues
[types-npm-dir]: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-types/tree/main/npm
[chromium]: https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src
